Karnataka PGCET MCA Syllabus

Karnataka PGCET MCA Syllabus 2015:-

Mathematics

Algebra:-

Fundamental operations in Algebra, Expansion, Factorization, Simultaneous Linear/Quadratic equations, Indices, Logarithms, Arithmetic, Geometric and Harmonic progressions, Binomial theorem, Permutations and Combinations, Surds, Determinants, Matrices and application to solution of simultaneous linear equations Co-Ordinate.

Geometry:

Rectangular Cartesian co-ordinates, Equations of Line, Mid-point, Intersections etc, Equations of a Circle, Distance formulae, Pair of straight lines, Parabola, Ellipse and Hyperbola, Simple Geometric transformations such as Translation, Rotation, Scaling.

Vector: Position vector, Addition and Subtraction of Vectors, Scalar and Vector products.Trigonometry:

Simple identities, Trigonometric equations, Properties of triangles, Inverse function.

Probability and Statistics:

Basic concept of Probability theory, Averages, Dependent and Independent events, Frequency distributions and measures of dispersions, Skewness and Kurtosis, Random variable and Distribution functions, Mathematical Expectations, Binomial, Poisson,

Normal distributions, Curve fitting and Principle of Least Squares, Correlation and Regression.

Computer Awareness

Computer Basics:

Organization of a Computer, Central Processing Unit (CPU), Input/Output devices, Computer memory, Back-up devices, Computer

Languages, Operating Systems.

Data Representation:

Representation of Characters, Integers and Fractions, Binary and Hexadecimal representations, Binary arithmetic: Addition,

Subtraction, Multiplication,Division, Two’s complement arithmetic, Floating-point representation of numbers, Normalized

Floating-point representation.

3. Analytical Ability and Logical Reasoning:

The question in this section will cover Logical reasoning, Quantitative reasoning and Visuospatial reasoning.

General Awareness

This section shall carry questions to test the aspirant's general awareness about Business, Finance,Industry, Transportation, Scientific

inventions, Governance, Healthcare and Culturaldimensions etc.

5. General English:Proficiency in English Language

Synonyms; Antonyms; One word substitution; Ologies and Ographies; Idioms and phrases; Pairs expressing relationships; Grammar;

Famous Books in English Literature; Sentence Correction & Vocabulary.

Paper Pattern

Following is the paper pattern for Karnataka PG CET MCA Exam 2015:

The common entrance test shall be of two hours duration.

Question Paper shall be for a maximum of 100 marks.

PGCET MCA question paper shall contain objective type questions only, with varying degree of difficulty. The question paper shall contain 80 questions.

Part A shall have 60 questions of One Mark each, Part B shall have 20 question of Two Mark each covering the full syllabus.

1. Mathematics - 40
2. Computer Awareness - 20
3. Analytical Ability & Logical Reasoning - 15
4. General Awareness - 10
5. General English - 15
- See more at: http://www.eduvidya.com/Entrance-Exam/Karnataka-PGCET-MCA#sthash.AP2Xr03v.dpuf